blutter tool added (by @appknox) (#2881)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: tools/android/MASTG-TOOL-0111.md

---
title: Blutter
platform: android
source: https://github.com/worawit/blutter
---

> [Blutter](https://github.com/worawit/blutter) is an open-source tool created to support the reverse engineering of Flutter applications. Unlike other Flutter tools, Blutter parses the libapp.so file locally, without requiring you to run the app on a device. The tool is compatible Linux, Windows, and macOS, but can only analyse Android ARM64 apps. Blutter is capable of extracting and analyzing Dart objects and it can generate Frida scripts for further analysis.

Reviewer: is blutter "better" than reFlutter? why would we use it instead of reFlutter?

> [Blutter](https://github.com/worawit/blutter) is an open-source tool created to support the reverse engineering of Flutter applications by compiling the Dart AOT Runtime. It targets the lib files found in decompiled apks and is compatible with the latest versions of Dart. It makes use of an advanced C++20 formatting library. The tool is compatible with Linux, Windows, and macOS operating systems. Blutter is capable of extracting and analyzing Dart objects and can generate Frida scripts for further analysis. It automatically compiles any required Dart versions that are not already installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Blutter](https://github.com/worawit/blutter) is an open-source tool created to support the reverse engineering of Flutter applications. Unlike other Flutter tools, Blutter parses the libapp.so file locally, without requiring you to run the app on a device. The tool is compatible Linux, Windows, and macOS, but can only analyse Android ARM64 apps. Blutter is capable of extracting and analyzing Dart objects and it can generate Frida scripts for further analysis.
```

> This tool does require a specific environment to work, which can be found [here](https://github.com/worawit/blutter?tab=readme-ov-file#environment-setup).If you don’t want to setup the environment here is the docker support for the blutter tool.

Reviewer 2: Where is the docker support?

Reviewer: it's not supported yet: https://github.com/worawit/blutter/pull/50 

pancake has one currently: https://github.com/trufae/blutter-docker

Author: There is no official docker support as of now, so I have not added it here. But, docker is necessary to work with this tool as it is difficult to get the right dependency. So @cpholguera should we include these in the guide?

Reviewer: Yes, please update the paragraph accordingly (you can include both links)

Author: I have added the docker file itself, as it is a short file, and this will prevent any broken links while providing ease of usage for this tool.

> Use the apktool to Extract "lib" directory from apk file.

Reviewer 2: Update this to either show both options: either apktool d yourself first, or directly supply the apk file to blutter.

Reviewer: should this go into a technique?

Author: A technique might not be needed as the tool usage and its output details are given [here](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mastg/blob/master/tools/android/MASTG-TOOL-0011.md). However, I do see that the lib folder details are missing.

Reviewer: @ScreaMy7 When we add a tool, it usually needs to have one or more MASTG-TECH-xxxx that use that tool (https://mas.owasp.org/MASTG/techniques/). This was a requirement in the past, and we need to require it again because the tools section is not meant to be "just" a list of tools. We need to ensure that whoever adds a tool has tested it and demonstrated that it is actually useful, and the way to ensure this is to create techniques for the most useful use cases of the tool. Then we'd have to make sure those techniques are used in testing.

From time to time, we review tools, and if there are no use cases for the tools in the MASTG, we remove them.

In this case we'd need a MASTG-TECH-00xx like "Reverse Engineering Flutter Apps for Android".

Author: A technique and its usage are given by the datafarm-research team in #2913
